J.T. Fraser
===========

Founder of the International Society for the Study of Time (1966), J.T.Fraser
is the author of Of Time, Passion, and Knowledge (1975, 1990), Time as Conflict
(1978), The Genesis and Evolution of Time (1982), Time the Familiar Stranger
(1987, 1988), Time. Conflict, and Human Values (1999) and Time and Time Again
(2007). He is also editor of The Voices of Time (1968, 1981) and of the ten
volumes of The Study of Time series (1972—2000) and Founding Editor of
KronoScope - Journal in the Study of Time. Dr. Fraser has taught courses and
conducted seminars in the study of time at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Mount Holyoke College. University of Maryland and Fordham
University. Acknowledged to be the world’s foremost authority on the
interdisciplinary, integrated study of time, he is the author of many articles
in professional periodicals and has lectured extensively on different aspects
of the study of time.

<http://www.studyoftime.org/ContentPage.aspx?ID=28>
[KronoScope](http://booksandjournals.brillonline.com/content/journals/15685241)

@fraser1980plato
----------------

J. T. Fraser, "Out of Plato's cave: The natural history of time", Kenyon
Review, pp. 143–162, 1980.

In this paper, Fraser revises the theory of knowledge in Plato's cave,
inverting the presentation of time: he argues that timelessness comprises the
darkness and the primitive, while intelligibility and light reside in the
temporal. In unpacking this argument, Fraser describes a hierarchy of time
using the metaphor of an arrow drawn on the page.

When the head, tail, and shaft of the arrow are all well defined, future,
present and past are all present and distinct. This represents human conscious
awareness of flying time, from cradle to grave. This time is noetic; a noetic
world is nootemporal. When the past and future become ill-defined and appear at
the hazy edges of the now, we have biotemporality: the temporal world of
infants and advanced non-human animals, and instinctual human functioning. Time with the past and future missing is eotemporal. Not everything happens at
once, but time's directionality is missing. Subsets of the present, slivers of
the arrow's shaft, represent prototemporal conditions present for elementary
particles: temporal positions can only be stated in probabilistic terms. Finally, without even the arrow shaft we have a blank page and atemporal conditions: chaos.

Fraser also draws on Uexkull's 'Umwelt': species-specific universes determined
entirely by that specie's receptors and effectors, and the modern psychological
'umwelt': the circumscribed portion of the environment which is meaningful and
effective for a given animal species and that changes its significance in
accordance with the mood operative at the moment. Together with the above
hierarchy of time, Fraser explores the scale and experiences within each of the
temporal umwelts.
