Nicola Dell
===========

<http://nixdell.com>

My research interests are in human-computer interaction, mobile computing and
computing for development with a focus on designing and evaluating systems that
improve the lives of underserved populations in low-income regions. I am
broadly interested in understanding the social, technical, and infrastructural
challenges faced by new and diverse user groups in low-resource environments
and building software to address their uniquely situated needs. My PhD thesis
focuses on the technical, user interaction and deployment challenges of
integrating mobile, camera-based systems into resource-constrained
environments.

PhD advisors: Gaetano Borriello and Linda Shapiro.

@dell2012yours
--------------

Nicola Dell, Vidya Vaidyanathan, Indrani Medhi, Edward Cutrell and William
Thies. "Yours is Better!" Participant Response Bias in HCI, CHI 2012.

Dell et al look at subjective preference ratings of user interfaces among
rickshaw operators in Bangalore, and measure participant response bias due to
interviewer demand characteristics. While the psychology literature has long
considered a variety of subjective response biases, this topic is less well
interrogated in HCI. Furthermore, Dell works in HCI4D, and explores response
bias in this context, where participants and interviewers may have quite
different cultural backgrounds and (perceived) social status and social power.
This paper reports that respondents are 2.5x more likely to prefer a tech
artifact they believe the interview developed, even when an alternative is
identical. Furthermore, when the interviewer is foreign and requires a
translator, response bias toward the interviewer's artifact increases to 5x.

Importantly, it was not the case the participants were necessarily consciously
altering their reports: "These comments suggest that participants did not just
tell the interviewer the 'right' response while secretly thinking otherwise,
but rather that participants seemed to genuinely believe the interviewer's
artifact to be superior and identified convincing reasons to justify their
choice."

Dell et al make several recommendations:

- dissociate interviewer from any particular design or solution as much as
  possible
- to rely solely on subjective information from participants is problematic
- always attempt to obtain further evidence and by triangulation to
  validate/increase confidence in subjective findings
